開講日程2012年度 秋学期 金曜日４時限担当教員フリードマン，　デビッド　Ｊ．関連科目使用言語日本語授業形態ディスカッション履修者選抜
			【受入予定人数】15人
		【受入予定人数を超えた場合の選考日程】
		【受入受入予定を超えた場合の選考方法】Please review the pages before registering for this seminar. There are currently 15 members in the seminar.  If you wish to register please send an email in English to: shonanguy@sfc.keio.ac.jp with your name, year and interest in the seminar. I would like to request interested students to visit the seminar on Friday, July 6, 2:45 -4:15 in lambda 301 and to set up an interview at that time.  Thank you.  David Freedman

		履修条件連絡先moose@sfc.keio.ac.jp研究会ホームページhttp://onigiri-project.jimdo.com/, http://childrenlit.sfc.keio.ac.jp/

What is Japan?  What does it mean to visit Japan, and how can an individual access a country, a culture, 
a language. Which aspects of  the varieties of contemporary Japanese lifestyles represents “japaneseness” at home and in the world?   In this project, students will explore the aspects: historical, cultural, conceptual of this question, and use the results to design non-classroom student-guided support programs for the GIGA program students in the ESC lab.

Students will begin by examining historical and contemporary perceptions of Japan. From the development of Japanesque /Japonaiserie , the 19th c movement in European art that developed in the wake of the Japanese exhibit at the World Exposition in Paris 1867 to modern conceptualizations developed via web cultures of Japanimation and Otaku-cultures ( http://facts-about-japan.com/otaku.html ) students will explore the “outside’ images of Japan. Based on their findings, students will identify key “portals”  
(  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Japan )
that may help an individual enter into the varieties of  modern Japanese cultures.

Based on their studies, students will develop and run various “teaching Japan” projects in the ESC lab (lambda 301) to support the SFC GIGA program
( http://ic.sfc.keio.ac.jp/the-giga-program/

These are the webpages for the two current projects for this lab.
Onigiri Project - http://onigiri-project.jimdo.com/
Child Book Project - http://childrenlit.sfc.keio.ac.jp/

学生からのコメント：

Onigiri Projectでは、GIGAの生徒や留学生向けに毎週日本文化を伝える授業をしています。表面的な知識だけではなく、実際の体験を通じて日本の日常を知ってもらおうと、学生は自らテーマを決めて1時限分のレッスンを考案します。
日本文化を教えることは簡単なことではないですが、学べることも多くあります。普段は当たり前だと思いがちな習慣が実は日本独特の文化だと気づいたり、他国の文化についても知ることができます。
研究会外の時間で、頻繁にイベントも行っています。Halloween Party, New Year's Party, Hanamiなど、文化を横断して楽しめる時間となっています。GIGAや留学生と交流しながら、それぞれの文化理解を楽しんでいます。

The project work will be divided into two parts.  In the first part of the term, students will explore a history of the ideas that have formed the images of Japan in the global community.  Students will be expected to have read the assigned texts and be prepared for a class discussion of the concepts.  In the second half of the term, the students will form work groups and develop and present plans for a “learn Japan project” for the ESC.  After their initial presentations, the work groups will sign-up for a practicum in the ESC.  Finally the groups will present a final report as their experiences in developing and implementing their project

As a project, there is room for 15 students. Because this project focuses on the ESC, working with and in English is necessary.  However, this does not mean that everyone needs to be a returnee. As ALL LEVLS of learners will be served by the lab, consequently, all levels of English-users are welcome to this project. The basis of your project-work grade is NOT HOW WELL YOU SPEAK, BUT HOW WELL you use your language skills to express your ideas and do the work.  The project especially needs active high-beginner to intermediate level students who are interested in project development.

Student evaluation will take comprise three combined grades:



Active participation in the reading discussion section of the project (classes 1-4.) This does not mean speaking perfectly, it does not mean having the “correct” answer to every question (a good question ? “What does that word mean?” is as much participation as a good answer. 


Full participation in  the group planning for the practicums in the ESC.  your project grades DO NOT depend on ESC student reactions to your lessons and programs, but on your preparation.


At the end of the course a short (1-2 pages) individual essay reviewing your work for the ESC and the teaching concepts you based your work on will be required


Tentative Schedule:



Organization


Historical Images of Japan http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Himiko http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exposition_Universelle_(1867)


Contemporary Images of Japan http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/ek20030814br.html


Official Images of Japan JUNTO “Yokoso Japan” site ( http://www.jnto.go.jp/vjc/ )


Report 1: personal image of Japan/proposal for a portal project. 


Policy and Perceptions  http://www.mext.go.jp/english/news/1283454.htm


Project preparation and schedule


ESC Practicum


ESC Practicum


ESC Practicum


ESC Practicum 


Report 2  Evaluation of projects and 2011 plan


plans for 2012 


update project page


