開講日程2012年度 秋学期 火曜日４時限担当教員小林　良樹関連科目【前提科目（推奨）】42040:安全保障政策
使用言語英語授業形態講義、ディスカッション、グループワーク履修者選抜
			【受入予定人数】15人
		【受入予定人数を超えた場合の選考日程】Applicants are required to contact the instructor by e-mail no later than July  29th.
		【受入受入予定を超えた場合の選考方法】Appicants for the course are required to contact the instructor by e-mail no later than July 29th. An interview with the instructor will be arranged.

		履修条件●   This is an advanced course.  Having a good understanding of basic intelligence theories is a prerequisite for this course.

●   Students are required to read through the following basic textbook before taking this course; Mark M. Lowenthal, "Intelligence - From Secrets to Policy (5th Edition)," Washington D.C., CQ Press, 2011.
連絡先yoshiki-kobayashi@nifty.com研究会ホームページhttp://lab.yoshiki-kobayashi.com/jp/

●   This is an advanced course of theoretical studies of intelligence and national security.  The objective of the course is to get a better understanding of latest major issues of intelligence studies by reading related academic articles.

●   Examples of the issues possibly dealt with in the class are as follows.



Definition of "Intelligence"


Methods of Intelligence Studies


The Policymaker-Intelligence Relationship


Intelligence Politicization


Intelligence Oversight and Accountability


The Intelligence and Law Enforcement Relationship


The challenges of Counterintelligence


Covert Action and Ethics


Comparison between American Intelligence and British Intelligence


Intelligence Community Reform    



●   Since this is an advanced course, having a good understanding of basic intelligence theories is a prerequisite for this course.  Students are required to read through the following basic textbook before taking this course; Mark M. Lowenthal, "Intelligence - From Secrets to Policy (5th Edition)," Washington D.C., CQ Press, 2011.

●   The course will consist in a series of seminar sessions with pre‐assigned readings. Students are expected to do all the readings prior to each session, as well as attend and participate in class discussions.

●   Each student is also expected to conduct an individual research project regarding an issue of his/her own choice. (Any topic related to intelligence and national security could be acceptable.)

●   The class will be offered in English. However, if all students are fluent in Japanese, the language could be switched to Japanese.

●   Final grades will be assigned as follows;



Individual Research Paper (40%)


Class Attendance (20%)


Participation on Class Discussions (40%)


●   Students are required to read through the following basic textbook before taking this course; Mark M. Lowenthal, "Intelligence - From Secrets to Policy (5th Edition)," Washington D.C., CQ Press, 2011.

●   The details of reading assignments will be discussed in the class.  However, most of articles will be chosen from the following text books.



Loch K. Johonson, James J. Wirtz (ed.), ”Intelligence and Natioal Security: The Secret World of Spies: An Anthology (Third Edition),” Oxford University Press, 2010.


Loch K. Johonson (ed.), The Oxford Handbook of National Security Intelligence, Oxford, 2010.


Loch K. Johonson (ed.), Handbook of Intelligence Studies, Routledge, 2009.


(N/A)
●   As is mentioned above, each student is expected to conduct an individual research project regarding an issue of his/her own choice. (Any topic related to intelligence and national security could be acceptable.)
●   The tenure of the instructor will finish in March 2013.  The 2012 Fall semester is the last semester this course is offered.
(N/A)
●   This is the tentative schedule subject to change.



Class 01 (September 25): Guidance


Class 02 (October 02): Review of Bacis theories 


Class 03 (October 09): Class Discussions 


Class 04 (October 16): Class Discussions


Class 05 (October 23): Class Discussions 


Class 06 (October 30): Class Discussions


Class 07 (November 06): Mid-Term Presentations on individual Projects 


Class 08 (November 13): Mid-Term Presentations on individual Projects


( November 20 is an official university holiday.)


Class 09 (November 27): Class Discussions


Class 10 (December 04): Class Discussions


Class 11 (December 11): Class Discussions


Class 12 (December 18): Class Discussions


Class 13 (December 25): Class Discussions


Class 14 (January 08): Final Presentations on individual Projects


