開講日程2012年度 秋学期 火曜日５時限担当教員フォスター，　ジム関連科目Interest and background in Internet related topics; understanding of legal and policy processes related to technology.
使用言語英語授業形態講義、ディスカッション、グループワーク履修者選抜
			【受入予定人数】10人
		【受入予定人数を超えた場合の選考日程】Selection will be made after first meeting of the seminar on September 25.
		【受入受入予定を超えた場合の選考方法】English skills and background in technical issues related to the Internet.

		履修条件Strong English skills are desirable since the seminar involves extensive reading and discussion in English.
連絡先jfoster@sfc.keio.ac.jp研究会ホームページ

This seminar explores the evolution of the Internet from a global and comparative perspective.  National policies for promoting the growth of the Internet are examined and benchmarked.  Obstacles to the emergence of a global Internet economy are highlighted, including government regulatory frameworks and policies on privacy, security, intellectual property and competition.  

Students are challenged to relate the experiences of other countries, particularly the US, China and the EU, to the situation in Japan where utilization of the Internet in areas such as education, e-government and healthcare lags in some respects behind other advanced nations.

This semester builds on Spring period discussions and will focus on five broad projects: 1) support for the ACCJ-Keidanren Cloud Computing Industry Forum; 2) preparation for the October US-Japan Internet Economy Dialogue; 3) monitoring of the November Internet Governance Forum in Baku and the December International Telecommunications Union meeting on the Internet in Dubai; 4) a visit to Japan by EC VP Nellie Kroes; and 5) preparations for the launch of a network of universities focusing on Internet research and advocacy. 

Class participation, submission of four "book blogs" and a "take-home" examination covering the major topics discussed in class.
Materials are generally available on the Internet or can be purchased by Amazon. Documents related to the US-Japan Industry Forum, the US-Japan Internet Economy Dialogue and the global Internet government initiatives and discussions will be provided as they are available.
Projects are listed above in course description.  There are five work streams this year so I am looking for committed and enthusiastic students to help with them.
There will be many opportunities to interact with government officials and representatives of some of the leading ICT (and Internet) companies in Japan and globally.
An Internet Strategy for Japan in Asia
Students who are uncertain of their English ability should nonetheless come to observe the class.  The emphasis in class discussion  is on communication not perfect grammar.  I also speak Japanese so on difficult issues discussion can continue in Japanese.
Class meets every Tuesday evening.  There will also be many opportunities for off sites to Tokyo to attend meetings and events related to the key themes discussed in this research group.
