開講日程2012年度 秋学期 月曜日６時限担当教員フォスター，　ジム関連科目Background in US and Japanese politics is desirable; experience in a political campaign or similar political activities will be helpful.
使用言語日本語授業形態講義、ディスカッション履修者選抜
			【受入予定人数】10人
		【受入予定人数を超えた場合の選考日程】Selection will be after first meeting of the seminar on September 24.
		【受入受入予定を超えた場合の選考方法】English ability and demonstrated interest in US politics will be important.

		履修条件None
連絡先jfoster@sfc.keio.ac.jp研究会ホームページ

This research group will follow and analyze the US presidential election in 2012, examining the role of the political parties, campaign financing, key interest groups, public opinion and polling, the media, the Internet, regional politics, the economy, social issues and foreign policy in determining the next president of the United States.

Once the election results are in, we will focus on how a new government is organized, e.g. who is appointed to key positions and what policies the new team chooses to emphasize.  This will be particularly interesting if the Republican candidate wins.

The results of the 2012 election seem poised to determine the policy course of the US for the next decade.  The Obama administration was elected in 2008 on a promise of "change," but was only able to carry through on a few of its ambitious goals because of a weak economy and very determined Republican opposition.  If Obama wins, we may see a realignment of the party system around the coalition that brought him to power.  If he fails to win, the Republicans could be positioned to roll back Obama's healthcare and budget plans and take the country in a quite different direction.

This research group will examine these trends and consider their implications for the US, Japan and the world.

We will be dealing with mainly current materials so seminar attendance and participation will be very important.  We will have four class discussions during the term for which a 3-4 page book "blog" is required.  There will also be a "take-home" exam covering the topics and ideas explored during this semester.
Materials will generally be drawn from the contemporary US media, including many video selection, as we follow the course of the election and its aftermath.
Students will be encouraged to consider how issues in US politics, such as the role of the Internet and campaigning financing, have implications in the Japanese political context.  The seminar next year may focus on studying and advocating for changes in Japan based on US and other models.
We will try to follow the results of the 2012 elections real time via CNN, with a view to seeing how the media reports on and analyzes elections.
Democratic Politics in a Comparative Framework:  Lessons for Japan from the US
This class is in English since the subject and materials are generally in English.  However, the emphasis in class discussion is on communication not grammar.  Students should finish the course with a good understanding of the US political system and the confidence to talk about it in English.
Class will meet every Monday evening.  We will occasionally have guest speakers, who are visiting Japan and are experts  in or actual players in US politics.
